Add Saline specialized guide (#3549)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/specialized-guides/pages/salt/salt-monitoring.adoc

This can be help with tuning large scale deployment installations.

== Saline formula

To configure Prometheus and Grafana dashboards, see xref:specialized-guides:salt/salt-formulas-saline.adoc[Saline Formula].

== Removing Saline

To remove Saline from the {productname} Server use [command]``mgradm upgrade podman`` with [option]``--saline-replicas 0``.

= Examples of resulting Grafana dashboards

== Uyuni Server (with Saline) dashboard

The dashboard represents {salt} events with the different views presented on the panels.

[[salt-events-panel]]
=== Salt Events

The panel represents all the {salt} events grouped by categories. [literal]``Salt events`` represents the total number of all categories of the events.

image::saline-salt-events.png[Salt Events]

=== Minions Activity

The panel provides the minions activity status for the specified interval of times. It shows the amount of minions which were active in last minute, 5 minutes, 15 minutes, 1 hour or considered offline on this moment of time or even ever seen (could be targeted or either responded or not) or active.

image::saline-salt-minions-activity.png[Minions Activity]

=== Salt Events by Tags and Functions

> The panel provides the detailed representation of xref:#salt-events-panel[Salt Events] with the event spread by direction. The events which are send to the minions are presented on the positive side of the axis, while the events received from the minions are presented on the negative side.

Author: I'm not sure if this reference is correct here: `xref:#salt-events-panel[Salt Events]`

[[salt-monitoring]]

> = Monitoring salt events
> 
> In some cases {salt} event bus could publish significant amount of events with the high rate, what could make it hard to analize.
> Getting the statistics based on the events published in the {salt} event bus can help to identify possible weak points and perform {salt} internals profiling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Monitoring {salt} Events

In some cases the {salt} event bus could publish significant amount of events with a high rate, what could make it hard to analize.
Getting the statistics based on the events published in the {salt} event bus can help to identify possible weak points and perform {salt} internals profiling.
```

[[saline]]
= Saline

> 

Reviewer: I'm wondering whether it is needed to say here at the beginning that you run commands such as mgradm or mgrctl on the "{productname} container host"?

Author: Yes, good point, will add it and will also put some examples of the output of Grafana

Saline is getting the statistics from the events which can also be retrived from the {salt} master with [command]``mgrctl exec -ti -- salt-run state.event``.
Besides of the Prometheus exporter Saline also provides [literal]``saline-formula``, which can be used to configure Prometheus and Grafana dashboards.

[[saline-deployment]]
== Saline deployment

To deploy Saline on the {productname} Server use [command]``mgradm upgrade podman`` with [option]``--saline-replicas 1``.
Saline can be deployed during the installation of the {productname} Server using [command]``mgradm install podman`` with [option]``--saline-replicas 1``.
The only possible values for [option]``--saline-replicas`` are ``1`` or ``0``.
The default port [option]``8216`` can be changed with specifying [option]``--saline-port NNNN`` (where [literal]``NNNN`` is a desired port number) on calling [command]``mgradm upgrade podman``.
After finishing the deployment [literal]``uyuni-server-saline@0.service`` should be configured on the {productname} Server host system.

== {salt} master configuration recommendations

> It's recommended to add [option]``master_stats: True`` and adjust the value of [option]``master_stats_event_iter: 60`` if needed and restart [command]``salt-master``,
> to get the detailed statistics of internal salt calls, what can be very helpful for tweaking large scale deployment installations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to add [option]``master_stats: True`` and adjust the value of [option]``master_stats_event_iter: 60`` if needed.
Then restart [command]``salt-master`` to get the detailed statistics of internal {salt} calls.
This can be help with tuning large scale deployment installations.
```

== Saline formula

> To configure Prometheus and Grafana dashboards, see xref:specialized-guides:salt/salt-formulas-saline.adoc[Saline Formula]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure Prometheus and Grafana dashboards, see xref:specialized-guides:salt/salt-formulas-saline.adoc[Saline Formula].
```
